ABOUT ME
I read in a book two years back that there are two worlds: one is a world shaped by mind-set of the masses symbolic of the ordinary lives of more 80% of the population and the other world shaped by thinkers, leaving a legacy of intellectual heritage. I decided to be in the latter. With that approach, I started my research journey-where ideas and reflecting on problems were the fuel for igniting changes. It began with my first year of pursuing Masters in Political Science and I found my interests growing in contributing to the formulation of policy solutions for climate crisis.
My roots lie in a family of Business minds and Entrepreneurs; I am the first generation Post-graduate, first in my family to earn a Master’s degree. It felt like a call to stewardship, heavy yet honourable. My journey into the world of visionaries ignited my intellectual energy and the inherent sustainability of India shaped my horizons. So far, I am playing my part to construct a change academically that could trigger transformations if aligned with our policies on sustainability or “Sarva Saha” in Sanskrit which means a harmonious coexistence between man and its nature.
ACADEMIC BACKGROUND
I like to describe myself as a rarefied researcher, a starling student and a wending writer. Having completed my schooling till 10th grade from St. Paul Sr. Sec School in Barmer Rajasthan, my cognitive exposure was confined. A pivotal juncture arrived, my mental horizons widened and understanding enriched following my family’s relocation to the capital city, Jaipur, for better educational opportunities and learning avenues. I completed my schooling then from St. Mary’s Sr. Sec. School, Jaipur, Rajasthan and secured first position in 12th grade [opted humanities as my discipline] in 2021. I did my graduation in three domain subjects of my interests [Political Science, History and Economics] in 2024 and completed my Post-graduation in Political Science in 2026 from IIS University, Jaipur, Rajasthan. I qualified the UGC NET exam [National Eligibility Test] with JRF [Junior Research Fellowship] in Political Science in 2026 in my first attempt. My scholarly focus in Political ecology, green governance and sustainable development define the thematic tipping points of my thought stream. I aspire to become a realistically radiant researcher and a steady, distinctive voice in the world of writing.
Papers Published:
1. "Arteries of Internet: Analysing the Assassins of Earth and Cable Colonialism”, published in the 11th CEO Congress at Portugal, ISBN: 978-625-95577-6-2.
Link: https://www.ceocongress.org/files/E-Book/11.%20CEO%20Proceedings%20E-Book.pdf?_t=1751319473, pg 278-287.
Link to the Paper Pdf:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tyFyygTZiVlbs01VVK17oDIV3afQ2bGZ/view?usp=drivesdk
2. “Digital Planet vs. Decarbonised Planet: Decoding Digital Pollution and Developing Dehumanization”, ISSN: 3048-8785Vol. 2, Issue 1 • pp. 216–224
Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vJNA8LDARtEm4o57yQrqCJc3CA6Lk1-Z/view?usp=drivesdk
Link to the paper pdf:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tNy6R8RJHo7Pc16pJU0S8OrtLX0KX8zM/view?usp=drivesdk
Papers Presented
HEADING ONE : Paper title : “Sahara Seeding: Cause of Celebration or Stress?”
[Description]:  Presented at the International conference on “Environmental Synergies: Bridging gaps for a greener future”, 24th and 25th January, 2025. Won the best paper presenter award at this International conference, 2025 held in SS Jain Subodh College, Jaipur.
Pictures to be inserted :
HEADING TWO: Paper Title: “Identity Politics- An Exigency for Assamese Women”
[Description]: Presented at the ICSSR sponsored National seminar on: “Understanding India's North-east: ethnicity, identity, Language and Issues of conflict”.
Pictures to be inserted:
HEADING THREE:  Paper title: “Suns on Earth: Development or Danger and the Role of Fintech in Fusion”
Description: Paper presented at the “International Conference on Dynamics of Sustainability Management through Digitalization [DSMD25], organised by Jaipur School of Business and Economics, JECRC University, Jaipur, 4th-5th April, 2025.
Pictures to be inserted:
HEADING FOUR: Paper title: “Arctic Alienation: An Abandoned Admonition”
[Description]: Presented paper at the 12th GoGreen Summit, Corus Hotel, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 22nd and 23rd May, 2025.  Paper title: “Arctic Alienation: An Abandoned Admonition”
Pictures to be inserted:
ALSO add this picture
HEADING FIVE: Paper title: “Arteries of Internet: Analysing the Assassins of Earth and Cable Colonialism”
[Description]: Paper presented and published at the 11th CEO Congress Portugal, 13-15 June, 2025
Pictures to be inserted:
HEADING SIX: Paper title : “Swords, Scripts and Strategies in Statecraft: Mapping the timeless tactics of Political unification of India by Sardar Patel and Kautilya”
Description:  Paper presenter at the ICSSR Sponsored National seminar on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Pondicherry University, 21-22August 2025.
Picture to be inserted:
HEADING SEVEN: Paper title: “Evolution of India’s Loktantra: From Matdaan to Manthan”
Description: Paper presented at the Political Science Conclave organised by University of Delhi on 11-12 March 2026 @ India International Centre, New Delhi.
Pictures to be inserted:
EVENTS AND OPPORTUNITIES- WIDENING INTELLECTUAL VISTAS [Kindly consider them separately from research papers and conferences, these are the events attended by me-interdisciplinary to broaden my scope and perspectives in the contemporary world….]
Participation at “SAGARMANTHAN–THE GLOBAL OCEANS DIALOGUE 2025 @MUMBAI, INDIA”.
Description: This event organised by Observer Research Foundation [ORF] in collaboration with Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. The Global ocean dialogue was an Exceptional opportunity, in which the ancient Indian Churn in the oceans called Samudramanthan was recommissioned to serve the Burgeoning issues of the millennium century. From docks to data, from ship building to sustainability and smart supply chains , from maritime policy to critical minerals , from coastal areas to indigenous communities , from Digitalisation to decarbonisation and from Blue economy to Blue skills , the summit encompassed a plethora of dialogues, discussions and discourses , serving as an emerging platform for maritime cooperation not only for South-South Coorperation but also as a Ecosystem where the emerging economies can voice their voyages of Green Growth in the Oceans.
Photos to be inserted :
Participation at : “World Sustainable Development Summit” at its Silver Jublilee edition, organised by The Energy Research Institute [TERI@50] in Taj Palace, New Delhi, 25-26-27 February, 2026
Description: Learning about emergency breaks we need to pull for protecting our environmental heritage, about community participation in coral protection in Tamil Nadu, then the emerging hydrogen fuel instead of LPG in Indian Kitchens as a revolution for climate action. The summit gave me what I aspire, experience and opportunity to develop connections with individuals working endlessly for sustainability.
Picture to be inserted
Participation at: “Raisina Dialogues 2026 by Observer Research Foundation” on 6-7 March 2026 @Taj Palace, New Delhi.
Description: From Reading about Raisina to rejoicing the dialogues in Reality, the experience was truly over the top. The conference's theme of Samskara needs to be sowed in the strategies of States and Supply chains, where India assumes the new position as a Builder rather then a Balancing Agent. The spotlight event with Honorable Chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Chandrababu Naidu- raising Amravati as the Quantum Capital of the world and a global hub of Creators city in the state, showed his optimism in Youth. Followed by the special session with Hon'ble minister of Commerce Piyush Goyal who shared his experience and advises for the upcoming Agenda of India,  a roadmap mapping India’s progress beyond 2047. The atmosphere of Ideas and accommodation, ignited the urge to question, collaborate and contribute in this World of Wisdom.
Pictures to be Inserted:
The remarks by Dr. Jaishankar [Minister of External Affairs] about the “matrix of Multipolarity with or without Multilateralism materializing in the magnum of global relations” in this day and age were assertive.       The remarks by Dr. Jaishankar [Minister of External Affairs] about the “matrix of Multipolarity with or without Multilateralism materializing in the magnum of global relations” in this day and age were assertive.
The remarks by Dr. Jaishankar [Minister of External Affairs] about the “matrix of Multipolarity with or without Multilateralism materializing in the magnum of global relations” in this day and age were assertive.
The remarks by Dr. Jaishankar [Minister of External Affairs] about the “matrix of Multipolarity with or without Multilateralism materializing in the magnum of global relations” in this day and age were assertive.
Partcipation at: “Youth Development Forum 2026, Berlin, Germany, organised by Centre for Global Dialogue and Leadership on 7th to 10th May 2026”.
Description: From Barmer to Berlin, visiting Germany for participating in the global gathering of emerging leaders, young professionals and change makers, the experience was surreal and resembled a vision realised in practise. My first visit to Europe, and I realised the huge gulf in quality of life, research parameters, level of cognitive activity, Berliner’s concern for Biodiversity and environment, revealed through the mechanistic protection of a single tree, a sight leaving an enduring impression on me. The conference gave an opportunity to learn and unlearn, bridging ideas and shaping future with people from more than 50 countries, and the Brave Berlin City of Sustainability, with its world war history followed by  transformation that was so turbo charged that it now a hub of innovation, culture and democracy. From Museums Island to Palaces like Charlottenburg and Sanssouci , from River spree to East side gallery, from Reichstag Building to the Holocaust memorial, the trip me a lot of lessons and offered lasting camaraderie.